F# plaintext printing documentation (#19632)
dotnet/docs: docs/fsharp/language-reference/plaintext-formatting.md

---
title: "Tutorial: Plain Text Formatting"
description: Learn how to use structured formatted plain text in F# applications and scripts.

> ms.date: 22/07/2020

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 07/22/2020
```

---

# Plain Text Formatting

> F# allows values to be formatted as structured plain text in a compositional way.

Author: I'll remove it

As a simple example, consider the following and note how the otuput has been formatted as a matrix-like display of tuples.

```console
dotnet fsi

> let data = [ for i in 1 .. 3 -> [ for j in 1 .. 3 -> (i, j) ] ];;

val data : (int * int) list list =
  [[(1, 1); (1, 2); (1, 3); (1, 4); (1, 5)];
   [(2, 1); (2, 2); (2, 3); (2, 4); (2, 5)];
   [(3, 1); (3, 2); (3, 3); (3, 4); (3, 5)];
   [(4, 1); (4, 2); (4, 3); (4, 4); (4, 5)];
   [(5, 1); (5, 2); (5, 3); (5, 4); (5, 5)]]

>  printfn "%A" data;;
[[(1, 1); (1, 2); (1, 3); (1, 4); (1, 5)];
 [(2, 1); (2, 2); (2, 3); (2, 4); (2, 5)];
 [(3, 1); (3, 2); (3, 3); (3, 4); (3, 5)];
 [(4, 1); (4, 2); (4, 3); (4, 4); (4, 5)];
 [(5, 1); (5, 2); (5, 3); (5, 4); (5, 5)]]
```

> Plain text formatting is activated when using the `%A` format in printf formatting strings. This has limited customizability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Plain text formatting is activated when you use the `%A` format in `printf` formatting strings.
```
Eliding the bit about customization since it doesn't really matter here

> It is also used when formatting the output of values in F# interactive, when the output includes extra information and is additionally customizable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Plain text formatting is also used when formatting the output of values in F# interactive, when the output includes extra information and is additionally customizable.
```

Plain text formatting is observable through the following:

1. The default results of `x.ToString()` on F# union and record values, when `sprintf "%+A"` is used.

> 2. The default debug text of F# union and record values (and structured values containing these), when `sprintf "%+A"` is also used.

Reviewer 2: I'll be honest, i'm struggling to understand what this means.

Author: Well, it means that the when you look at the plaintext display of a record or union value in the debugger you are seeing the `sprintf "%A"` formatting of that value.  

This is because you're actually looking at the ToString of it

Perhaps it's not worth mentioning.  I mean ToString gets called in all sorts of ways by other tooling too

Author: I made some updates, please check

## `%A` formatting

> The `%A` format specifier is used to format values in a human-readable way suitable for interpretation by the F#
> programmer.  It is not suitable for formatting results for other users and should not generally be used to format
> results in a user interface or web programming service.  It is often useful for reporting diagnostic information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `%A` format specifier is used to format values in a human-readable way, and can also be useful for reporting diagnostic information.
```
Elided the negative example since it's not specific. When you say "user interface or web programming service", what do you mean?

  (3, 9);
  (4, 16);
  (5, 25)|]
[|(1, 1); (2, 4);
  (3, 9); (4, 16);
  (5, 25)|]
[|(1, 1); (2, 4); (3, 9); (4, 16); (5, 25)|]
```

A depth limit of 4 is used for sequence (IEnumerable) values, which are shown as `seq { ...}`, and a depth limit of 100 is used for list and array values.
For example,

```fsharp
printfn "%A" (seq { for i in 1 .. 10 -> (i, i*i) })
```

produces

```console
seq [(1, 1); (2, 4); (3, 9); (4, 16); ...]
```

Block indentation is also used for the the structure of public record and union values. For example,

```fsharp
type R = { X : int list; Y : string list }

printfn "%A" { X =  [ 1;2;3 ]; Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }
```

produces

```console
{ X = [1; 2; 3]
  Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }
```

If `%+A` is used then the private structure of records and unions
is also revealed by using reflection. For example

```fsharp
type internal R =
    { X : int list; Y : string list }
    override x.ToString() = "R"

let internal data = { X = [ 1;2;3 ]; Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }

printfn "external view:\n%A" data

printfn "internal view:\n%+A" data

```

produces

```console
external view:
R

internal view:
{ X = [1; 2; 3]
  Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }
```

> ### `%A` formatting of large, cyclic or deeply nested values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `%A` formatting of large, cyclic, or deeply nested values
```

Large structured values are formatted to a maximum overall object node count of 10000.
Deeply nested values are formatted to a depth of 100.  In both cases `...` is used
to elide some of the output.  For example,

```fsharp
type Tree = Node of Tree * Tree | Tip

let rec make n = if n = 0 then Tip else Node(Tip, make (n-1))

printfn "%A" (make 1000)
```

produces a large output with some parts elided

```console
Node(Tip, Node(Tip, ....Node (..., ...)...))
```

Cycles are detected in the object graphs and `...` is used at places where cycles are detected. For example

```fsharp
type R = { mutable Links: R list }
let r = { Links = [] }
r.Links <- [r]
printfn "%A" r
```

produces

```console
{ Links = [...] }
```

> ### `%A` formatting of lazy, null and function values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `%A` formatting of lazy, null, and function values
```

Lazy values are printed as `Value is not created` or equivalent text when the value has not yet been evaluated.

Null values are printed as `null` unless the static type of the value is determined to be a union type where `null` is
a permitted represenation.

F# function values are printed as their internally generated closure name, for example `<fun:it@43-7>`.

> ### Customizing plain text formatting with `StructuredFormatDisplayAttribute`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customize plain text formatting with `StructuredFormatDisplayAttribute`
```

When using the `%A` specifier, the presence of `StructuredFormatDisplayAttribute` on type declarations is respected.  This can
be used to specify surrogate text and property to display a value. For example:

```fsharp
[<StructuredFormatDisplay("Counts({Clicks})")>]
type Counts = { Clicks:int list}

printfn "%20A" {Clicks=[0..20]}
```

produces

```console
Counts([0; 1; 2; 3;
        4; 5; 6; 7;
        8; 9; 10; 11;
        12; 13; 14;
        15; 16; 17;
        18; 19; 20])
```

> ### Customizing plain text formatting by overriding `ToString`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customize plain text formatting by overriding `ToString`
```

printfn "%s" ({Clicks=[0..10]}.ToString())
```

produces

```console
{ Clicks = [0; 1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 10] }
```

For class types, no default implementation of `ToString()` is provided and the .NET default is used, which reports the
name of the type. For example,

```fsharp
type MyClassType(clicks: int list) =
   member x.Clicks = clicks

printfn "The default ToString gives --> %s" (MyClassType([1..5]).ToString())
```

produces

```console
The default ToString gives --> MyClassType
```

Sometimes `sprintf "%A"` plus a `StructuredFormatDisplay` attribute makes for a suitable implementation
of `ToString`, e.g.

```fsharp
[<StructuredFormatDisplay("Counts({Clicks})")>]
type MyClassType(clicks: int list) =
   member x.Clicks = clicks
   override x.ToString() = sprintf "%A" x

printfn "ToString now gives --> %s" (MyClassType([1..5]).ToString())
```

produces

```console
ToString now gives --> Counts([1; 2; 3; 4; 5])
```

## F# Interactive Structured Printing

F# Interactive (`dotnet fsi`) uses an extended version of structured plain text formatting to
report values and allows additional customizability. See [F# Interactive](fsharp-interactive-options.md)
for details.

> ## Customizing debug displays using DebuggerDisplayAttribute, DebuggerTypeProxyAttribute and other attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Customize debug displays using `DebuggerDisplayAttribute`, `DebuggerTypeProxyAttribute`, and other attributes
```

output themselves contain linebreaks.  For example

```fsharp
printfn "%0A" [| for i in 1 .. 5 -> (i, i*i) |]

printfn "%0A" [| for i in 1 .. 5 -> "abc\ndef |]
```

produces

```console
[|(1, 1); (2, 4); (3, 9); (4, 16); (5, 25)|]
[|"abc
def"; "abc
def"; "abc
def"; "abc
def"; "abc
def"|]
```

A depth limit of 4 is used for sequence (`IEnumerable`) values, which are shown as `seq { ...}`. A depth limit of 100 is used for list and array values.
For example,

```fsharp
printfn "%A" (seq { for i in 1 .. 10 -> (i, i*i) })
```

produces

```console
seq [(1, 1); (2, 4); (3, 9); (4, 16); ...]
```

Block indentation is also used for the the structure of public record and union values. For example,

```fsharp
type R = { X : int list; Y : string list }

printfn "%A" { X =  [ 1;2;3 ]; Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }
```

produces

```console
{ X = [1; 2; 3]
  Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }
```

If `%+A` is used, then the private structure of records and unions
is also revealed by using reflection. For example

```fsharp
type internal R =
    { X : int list; Y : string list }

>     override x.ToString() = "R"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    override _.ToString() = "R"
```

let internal data = { X = [ 1;2;3 ]; Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }

printfn "external view:\n%A" data

printfn "internal view:\n%+A" data

```

produces

```console
external view:
R

internal view:
{ X = [1; 2; 3]
  Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }
```

### `%A` formatting of large, cyclic, or deeply nested values

Large structured values are formatted to a maximum overall object node count of 10000.
Deeply nested values are formatted to a depth of 100.  In both cases `...` is used
to elide some of the output.  For example,

```fsharp

> type Tree = Node of Tree * Tree | Tip

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
type Tree =
    | Tip
    | Node of Tree * Tree
```

> let rec make n = if n = 0 then Tip else Node(Tip, make (n-1))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
let rec make n =
    if n = 0 then
        Tip
    else
        Node(Tip, make (n-1))
```

printfn "%A" (make 1000)
```

produces a large output with some parts elided:

```console
Node(Tip, Node(Tip, ....Node (..., ...)...))
```

Cycles are detected in the object graphs and `...` is used at places where cycles are detected. For example

```fsharp
type R = { mutable Links: R list }
let r = { Links = [] }
r.Links <- [r]
printfn "%A" r
```

produces

```console
{ Links = [...] }
```

### `%A` formatting of lazy, null, and function values

Lazy values are printed as `Value is not created` or equivalent text when the value has not yet been evaluated.

Null values are printed as `null` unless the static type of the value is determined to be a union type where `null` is
a permitted represenation.

F# function values are printed as their internally generated closure name, for example, `<fun:it@43-7>`.

> ### Customize plain text formatting with `StructuredFormatDisplayAttribute`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Customize plain text formatting with `StructuredFormatDisplay`
```

> When using the `%A` specifier, the presence of `StructuredFormatDisplayAttribute` on type declarations is respected.  This can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using the `%A` specifier, the presence of the `StructuredFormatDisplay` attribute on type declarations is respected.  This can
```

be used to specify surrogate text and property to display a value. For example:

```fsharp
[<StructuredFormatDisplay("Counts({Clicks})")>]
type Counts = { Clicks:int list}

printfn "%20A" {Clicks=[0..20]}
```

produces

```console
Counts([0; 1; 2; 3;
        4; 5; 6; 7;
        8; 9; 10; 11;
        12; 13; 14;
        15; 16; 17;
        18; 19; 20])
```

### Customize plain text formatting by overriding `ToString`

> The default implementation of `x.ToString()` is observable in F# programming. Often, the default results

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default implementation of `ToString` is observable in F# programming. Often, the default results
```

aren't suitable for use in either programmer-facing information display or user output, and as a result it
is common to override the default implementation.  

> By default, F# record and union types override the implementation of `x.ToString()` with an implementation that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, F# record and union types override the implementation of `ToString` with an implementation that
```

uses `sprintf "%+A"`.  For example,

```fsharp
type Counts = { Clicks:int list }

printfn "%s" ({Clicks=[0..10]}.ToString())
```

produces

```console
{ Clicks = [0; 1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 10] }
```

> For class types, no default implementation of `ToString()` is provided and the .NET default is used, which reports the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For class types, no default implementation of `ToString` is provided and the .NET default is used, which reports the
```

name of the type. For example,

```fsharp
type MyClassType(clicks: int list) =

>    member x.Clicks = clicks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   member _.Clicks = clicks
```

let data = [ MyClassType([1..5]); MyClassType([1..5]) ]
printfn "Default structured print gives this:\n%A" data
printfn "Default ToString gives:\n%s" (data.ToString())
```

produces

```console
Default structured print gives this:
[MyClassType; MyClassType]
Default ToString gives:
[MyClassType; MyClassType]
```

> Adding an override for `ToString()` can give better formatting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adding an override for `ToString` can give better formatting.
```

```fsharp
type MyClassType(clicks: int list) =

>    member x.Clicks = clicks
>    override x.ToString() = sprintf "MyClassType(%0A)" clicks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   member _.Clicks = clicks
   override _.ToString() = sprintf "MyClassType(%0A)" clicks
```

let data = [ MyClassType([1..5]); MyClassType([1..5]) ]
printfn "Now structured print gives this:\n%A" data
printfn "Now ToString gives:\n%s" (data.ToString())
```

produces

```console
Now structured print gives this:
[MyClassType([1; 2; 3; 4; 5]); MyClassType([1; 2; 3; 4; 5])]
Now ToString gives:
[MyClassType([1; 2; 3; 4; 5]); MyClassType([1; 2; 3; 4; 5])]
```

## F# Interactive structured printing

F# Interactive (`dotnet fsi`) uses an extended version of structured plain text formatting to
report values and allows additional customizability. For more information, see [F# Interactive](fsharp-interactive-options.md).

## Customize debug displays

> Debuggers for .NET respect the use of attributes such as `DebuggerDisplayAttribute` and `DebuggerTypeProxyAttribute`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Debuggers for .NET respect the use of attributes such as `DebuggerDisplay` and `DebuggerTypeProxy`,
```

and these affect the structured display of objects in debugger inspection windows.
The F# compiler automatically generated these attributes for discriminated union and record types, but
not class, interface, or struct types.

These attributes are ignored in F# plain text formatting, but it can be useful to implement

> these methods to improve displays when debugging F# types.

Reviewer 2: Is it worth giving an example here? It's quite the parlor trick, e.g. https://github.com/dotnet/fsharp/blob/master/src/fsharp/FSharp.Core/prim-types.fs#L3528-L3575

Author: I think we should write a separate article on `Making your F# code easier to debug`. It's not specifically to do with plain text formatting - though important enough to call out that plain text formatting specifically doesn't use these attributes,though the default implementation of these attributes *does* use plain text formatting 

It's hard to give an example without showing screenshots I think and that would be inappropriate here,

---
title: "Plain Text Formatting"
description: Learn how to use printf and other plain text formatting in F# applications and scripts.
ms.date: 07/22/2020
---

# Plain Text Formatting

F# supports type-checked formatting of plain text using `printf`, `printfn`, `sprintf` and related functions.
For example,

```console
dotnet fsi

> printfn "Hello %s, %d + %d is %d" "world" 2 2 (2+2);;
```

gives the output

```fsharp
Hello world, 2 + 2 is 4
```

F# also allows structured values to be formatted as plain text.

> For example, consider the following and note how the output has been formatted as a matrix-like display of tuples.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, consider the following example that formats the output as a matrix-like display of tuples.
```

```console
dotnet fsi

> printfn "%A" [ for i in 1 .. 5 -> [ for j in 1 .. 5 -> (i, j) ] ];;

[[(1, 1); (1, 2); (1, 3); (1, 4); (1, 5)];
 [(2, 1); (2, 2); (2, 3); (2, 4); (2, 5)];
 [(3, 1); (3, 2); (3, 3); (3, 4); (3, 5)];
 [(4, 1); (4, 2); (4, 3); (4, 4); (4, 5)];
 [(5, 1); (5, 2); (5, 3); (5, 4); (5, 5)]]
```

Structured plain text formatting is activated when you use the `%A` format in `printf` formatting strings.

> and also when formatting the output of values in F# interactive, where the output includes extra information and is additionally customizable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's also activated when formatting the output of values in F# interactive, where the output includes extra information and is additionally customizable.
```

Plain text formatting is also observable through any calls to `x.ToString()` on F# union and record values, including those

> that occur implicitly in debugging, logging and other tooling.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that occur implicitly in debugging, logging, and other tooling.
```

> ## Checking of `printf`-format strings

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Check `printf`-format strings
```

Author: This isn't quite right.  It's describing how the F# compiler checks format strings at compile-time.  It's not something the user does.

Author: Please suggest another change here if you have one?

A compile-time error will be reported if a `printf` formatting function is used with an argument that doesn't match the printf format
specifiers in the format string.  For example,

```fsharp
sprintf "Hello %s" (2+2)
```

gives the output

```console
  sprintf "Hello %s" (2+2)
  ----------------------^

stdin(3,25): error FS0001: The type 'string' does not match the type 'int'
```

> Technically speaking, when using `printf` and other related functions a special rule in the F# compiler

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Technically speaking, when using `printf` and other related functions, a special rule in the F# compiler
```

checks the string literal passed as the format string, ensuring the subsequent arguments applied are of
the correct type to match the format specifiers used.

> ## Format Specifiers for `printf`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Format specifiers for `printf`
```

> Format specifications for `printf` formats are strings with `%` markers indicating format. Format placeholders consist of `%[flags][width][.precision][type]`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Format specifications for `printf` formats are strings with `%` markers that indicate format. Format placeholders consist of `%[flags][width][.precision][type]`
```

| `%f`               | a basic floating point type | Formatted as a signed value having the form `[-]dddd.dddd`, where `dddd` is one or more decimal digits. The number of digits before the decimal point depends on the magnitude of the number, and the number of digits after the decimal point depends on the requested precision. |
| `%g`, `%G` | a basic floating point type |  Formatted using as a signed value printed in `%f` or `%e` format, whichever is more compact for the given value and precision. |
| `%M` | a `System.Decimal` value  |    Formatted using the `"G"` format specifier for `System.Decimal.ToString(format)` |
| `%O` | any value  |   Formatted by boxing the object and valling its `System.Object.ToString()` method |
| `%A` | any value  |   Formatted using [structured plain text formatting](plaintext-formatting.md) with the default layout settings |
| `%a` | any value  |   Requires two arguments - a formatting function accepting a context parameter and the value, and the particular value to print |

> | `%t` | any value  |   Requires one argument, a formatting function accepting a context parameter which either outputs or returns the appropriate text |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `%t` | any value  |   Requires one argument, a formatting function accepting a context parameter that either outputs or returns the appropriate text |
```

> Basic integer types are `byte` (`System.Byte`), `sbyte` (`System.SByte`), `int16` (`System.Int16`), `uint16` (`System.UInt16`), `int32` (`System.Int32`), `uint32` (`System.UInt32`), `int64` (`System.Int64`), `uint64` (`System.UInt64`), `nativeint`  (`System.IntPtr`)and `unativeint`  (`System.UIntPtr`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Basic integer types are `byte` (`System.Byte`), `sbyte` (`System.SByte`), `int16` (`System.Int16`), `uint16` (`System.UInt16`), `int32` (`System.Int32`), `uint32` (`System.UInt32`), `int64` (`System.Int64`), `uint64` (`System.UInt64`), `nativeint`  (`System.IntPtr`), and `unativeint`  (`System.UIntPtr`).
```

 Basic floating point types are `float` (`System.Double`) and `float32` (`System.Single`).

The optional width is an integer indicating the minimal width of the result. For instance, `%6d` prints an integer, prefixing it with spaces
to fill at least 6 characters. If width is `*`, then an extra integer  argument is taken to specify the corresponding width.

Valid flags are:

| Flag   | Effect        | Remarks                      |
|:-------------------|:---------------|:-----------------------------|

> | `0`  | add zeros instead of spaces to make up the required width |    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `0`  | Add zeros instead of spaces to make up the required width |    |
```

> | `-` |  left justify the result within the width specified  |   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `-` |  Left justify the result within the specified width |   |
```

> | `+`  | add a `+` character if the number is positive (to match a `-` sign for negatives) |   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `+`  | Add a `+` character if the number is positive (to match a `-` sign for negatives) |   |
```

> | a space character | add an extra space if the number is positive (to match a '-' sign for negatives) |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| space character | Add an extra space if the number is positive (to match a '-' sign for negatives) |
```

> | a space character | add an extra space if the number is positive (to match a '-' sign for negatives) | 

Reviewer: This fixes a markdown lint error.
```suggestion
| a space character | add an extra space if the number is positive (to match a '-' sign for negatives) |
```

The printf `#` flag is invalid and a compile-time error will be reported if it is used.

> Values are formatted using invariant culture and culture settings are irrelevant to `printf` formatting except

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Values are formatted using invariant culture. Culture settings are irrelevant to `printf` formatting except
```

> when they affect the results of `%O` and `%A` formatting, see [structured plain text formatting](plaintext-formatting.md) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when they affect the results of `%O` and `%A` formatting. For more information, see [structured plain text formatting](plaintext-formatting.md).
```

## `%A` formatting

The `%A` format specifier is used to format values in a human-readable way, and can also be useful for reporting diagnostic information.

> ### `%A` formatting of primitive values

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Primitive values
```

When formatting plain text using the `%A` specifier, F# numeric values are formatted
with their suffix and invariant culture. Floating point values are formatted using
10 places of floating point precision. For example,

```fsharp
printfn "%A" (1L, 3n, 5u, 7, 4.03f, 5.000000001, 5.0000000001)
```

produces

```console
(1L, 3n, 5u, 7, 4.03000021f, 5.000000001, 5.0)
```

When using the `%A` specifier, strings are formatted using quotes. Escape codes are not added and instead the raw characters are printed. For example,

```fsharp
printfn "%A" ("abc", "a\tb\nc\"d")

```

produces

```console
("abc", "a      b
c"d")
```

> ### `%A` formatting of .NET values

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### .NET values
```

When formatting plain text using the `%A` specifier, non-F# .NET objects are formatted by using `x.ToString()` using the default settings of .NET given by
`System.Globalization.CultureInfo.CurrentCulture` and `System.Globalization.CultureInfo.CurrentUICulture`.  For example,

```fsharp
open System.Globalization

let date = System.DateTime(1999, 12, 31)

CultureInfo.CurrentCulture <- CultureInfo.GetCultureInfo("de-DE")
printfn "Culture 1: %A" date

CultureInfo.CurrentCulture <- CultureInfo.GetCultureInfo("en-US")
printfn "Culture 2: %A" date
```

produces

```console
Culture 1: 31.12.1999 00:00:00
Culture 2: 12/31/1999 12:00:00 AM
```

> ### `%A` formatting of structured values

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Structured values
```

> When formatting plain text using the `%A` specifier, block indentation is used for F# lists and tuples. The is shown in the example above.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When formatting plain text using the `%A` specifier, block indentation is used for F# lists and tuples. The is shown in the previous example.
```

The structure of arrays is also used, including multi-dimensional arrays.  Single-dimensional arrays are shown with `[| ... |]` syntax. For example,

```fsharp
printfn "%A" [| for i in 1 .. 20 -> (i, i*i) |]
```

produces

```console
[|(1, 1); (2, 4); (3, 9); (4, 16); (5, 25); (6, 36); (7, 49); (8, 64); (9, 81);
  (10, 100); (11, 121); (12, 144); (13, 169); (14, 196); (15, 225); (16, 256);
  (17, 289); (18, 324); (19, 361); (20, 400)|]
```

> A default print width of 80 is used.  This can be customized by using a print width in the format specifier. For example,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default print width is 80.  This width can be customized by using a print width in the format specifier. For example,
```

```fsharp
printfn "%10A" [| for i in 1 .. 5 -> (i, i*i) |]

printfn "%20A" [| for i in 1 .. 5 -> (i, i*i) |]

printfn "%50A" [| for i in 1 .. 5 -> (i, i*i) |]
```

produces

```console
[|(1, 1);
  (2, 4);
  (3, 9);
  (4, 16);
  (5, 25)|]
[|(1, 1); (2, 4);
  (3, 9); (4, 16);
  (5, 25)|]
[|(1, 1); (2, 4); (3, 9); (4, 16); (5, 25)|]
```

Specifying a print width of 0 results in no print width being used. A single line of text will result, except where embedded strings in the
output themselves contain linebreaks.  For example

```fsharp
printfn "%0A" [| for i in 1 .. 5 -> (i, i*i) |]

printfn "%0A" [| for i in 1 .. 5 -> "abc\ndef |]
```

produces

```console
[|(1, 1); (2, 4); (3, 9); (4, 16); (5, 25)|]
[|"abc
def"; "abc
def"; "abc
def"; "abc
def"; "abc
def"|]
```

> A depth limit of 4 is used for sequence (IEnumerable) values, which are shown as `seq { ...}`, and a depth limit of 100 is used for list and array values.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A depth limit of 4 is used for sequence (`IEnumerable`) values, which are shown as `seq { ...}`. A depth limit of 100 is used for list and array values.
```

For example,

```fsharp
printfn "%A" (seq { for i in 1 .. 10 -> (i, i*i) })
```

produces

```console
seq [(1, 1); (2, 4); (3, 9); (4, 16); ...]
```

Block indentation is also used for the the structure of public record and union values. For example,

```fsharp
type R = { X : int list; Y : string list }

printfn "%A" { X =  [ 1;2;3 ]; Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }
```

produces

```console
{ X = [1; 2; 3]
  Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }
```

> If `%+A` is used then the private structure of records and unions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If `%+A` is used, then the private structure of records and unions
```

is also revealed by using reflection. For example

```fsharp
type internal R =
    { X : int list; Y : string list }
    override x.ToString() = "R"

let internal data = { X = [ 1;2;3 ]; Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }

printfn "external view:\n%A" data

printfn "internal view:\n%+A" data

```

produces

```console
external view:
R

internal view:
{ X = [1; 2; 3]
  Y = ["one"; "two"; "three"] }
```

> ### `%A` formatting of large, cyclic, or deeply nested values

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Large, cyclic, or deeply nested values
```

Large structured values are formatted to a maximum overall object node count of 10000.
Deeply nested values are formatted to a depth of 100.  In both cases `...` is used
to elide some of the output.  For example,

```fsharp
type Tree = Node of Tree * Tree | Tip

let rec make n = if n = 0 then Tip else Node(Tip, make (n-1))

printfn "%A" (make 1000)
```

> produces a large output with some parts elided

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
produces a large output with some parts elided:
```

```console
Node(Tip, Node(Tip, ....Node (..., ...)...))
```

Cycles are detected in the object graphs and `...` is used at places where cycles are detected. For example

```fsharp
type R = { mutable Links: R list }
let r = { Links = [] }
r.Links <- [r]
printfn "%A" r
```

produces

```console
{ Links = [...] }
```

> ### `%A` formatting of lazy, null, and function values

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Lazy, null, and function values
```

Lazy values are printed as `Value is not created` or equivalent text when the value has not yet been evaluated.

Null values are printed as `null` unless the static type of the value is determined to be a union type where `null` is
a permitted represenation.

> F# function values are printed as their internally generated closure name, for example `<fun:it@43-7>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
F# function values are printed as their internally generated closure name, for example, `<fun:it@43-7>`.
```

### Customize plain text formatting with `StructuredFormatDisplayAttribute`

When using the `%A` specifier, the presence of `StructuredFormatDisplayAttribute` on type declarations is respected.  This can
be used to specify surrogate text and property to display a value. For example:

```fsharp
[<StructuredFormatDisplay("Counts({Clicks})")>]
type Counts = { Clicks:int list}

printfn "%20A" {Clicks=[0..20]}
```

produces

```console
Counts([0; 1; 2; 3;
        4; 5; 6; 7;
        8; 9; 10; 11;
        12; 13; 14;
        15; 16; 17;
        18; 19; 20])
```

### Customize plain text formatting by overriding `ToString`

> The default implementation of `x.ToString()` is observable in F# programming. Often the default results

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default implementation of `x.ToString()` is observable in F# programming. Often, the default results
```

> are not suitable for use in either programmer-facing information display nor user output, and as a result it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
aren't suitable for use in either programmer-facing information display or user output, and as a result it
```

is common to override the default implementation.  

> By default F# record and union types override the implementation of `x.ToString()` with an implementation that

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, F# record and union types override the implementation of `x.ToString()` with an implementation that
```

```

produces

```console
{ Clicks = [0; 1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 10] }
```

For class types, no default implementation of `ToString()` is provided and the .NET default is used, which reports the
name of the type. For example,

```fsharp
type MyClassType(clicks: int list) =
   member x.Clicks = clicks

let data = [ MyClassType([1..5]); MyClassType([1..5]) ]
printfn "Default structured print gives this:\n%A" data
printfn "Default ToString gives:\n%s" (data.ToString())
```

produces

```console
Default structured print gives this:
[MyClassType; MyClassType]
Default ToString gives:
[MyClassType; MyClassType]
```

Adding an override for `ToString()` can give better formatting.

```fsharp
type MyClassType(clicks: int list) =
   member x.Clicks = clicks
   override x.ToString() = sprintf "MyClassType(%0A)" clicks

let data = [ MyClassType([1..5]); MyClassType([1..5]) ]
printfn "Now structured print gives this:\n%A" data
printfn "Now ToString gives:\n%s" (data.ToString())
```

produces

```console
Now structured print gives this:
[MyClassType([1; 2; 3; 4; 5]); MyClassType([1; 2; 3; 4; 5])]
Now ToString gives:
[MyClassType([1; 2; 3; 4; 5]); MyClassType([1; 2; 3; 4; 5])]
```

> ## F# Interactive Structured Printing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## F# Interactive structured printing
```

F# Interactive (`dotnet fsi`) uses an extended version of structured plain text formatting to

> report values and allows additional customizability. See [F# Interactive](fsharp-interactive-options.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
report values and allows additional customizability. For more information, see [F# Interactive](fsharp-interactive-options.md).
```

> for details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ## Customize debug displays using `DebuggerDisplayAttribute`, `DebuggerTypeProxyAttribute`, and other attributes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Customize debug displays
```

Reviewer 3: Shorter titles make the in-article TOC more scannable.

> Debuggers for .NET respect the use of attributes such as `DebuggerDisplayAttribute` and `DebuggerTypeProxyAttribute`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Debuggers for .NET respect the use of attributes such as `DebuggerDisplayAttribute` and `DebuggerTypeProxyAttribute`,
```

and these affect the structured display of objects in debugger inspection windows.
The F# compiler automatically generated these attributes for discriminated union and record types, but

> not class, interface or struct types.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
not class, interface, or struct types.
```

> These attributed are ignored in F# plain text formatting, but it can be useful to implement

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These attributes are ignored in F# plain text formatting, but it can be useful to implement
```
